---
title: Possibly Procrastinating
---

## One-Line Summary



## Highlights

* 

## Goal Grades

At the start of each month, I [declare what I'd like to accomplish](/retrospectives/2019/11/#goals-for-next-month). Here's how I did against those goals:

### Publish a new blog post about eliminating distractions from email and social media

* **Result**: I published ["Eliminating Distractions from Social Media, Email, and StackOverflow"](http://localhost:4000/eliminate-distractions/)
* **Grade**: A

I was surprised how little a response it generated. I've had a string of posts that I knew were too narrowly-focused to get widespread attention, but I thought a blog post about focus in the age of social media would attract more interest.

It got a small amount of traction [on Reddit](https://redd.it/dva6b3) and [Twitter](https://twitter.com/deliberatecoder/status/1193942635960029184), but it didn't attract many readers overall (around 800 total to date).

On the positive side, I've heard good feedback from the people who did read it. A couple people told me that they picked up tips from the article that improved their productivity, so that's been rewarding to hear.

### Interview five customers for a potential new business

* **Result**: Interviewed three customers
* **Grade**: C

In a sense, I had three customer interviews, but for a very generous definition of "customer interview." Only one was a true customer interview. One was a general meeting for someone unlikely to become a customer, and the other was a brief in-person discussion and an invitation to follow up in December.

Given that my only real goal for the month was to interview customers, three is very few. It's partially due to my aversion to sales and my tendency toward trying to solve problems with code. There's also a problem in that this requires networking, and it's hard to start from zero to talking to the businesses I want.

## Stats

### [Is It Keto](https://isitketo.org)

| Metric                    | October 2019 | November 2019 | Change                                       |
| ------------------------- | ------------ | ------------- | -------------------------------------------- |
| Unique Visitors           | 26,315       | 27,981        | <font color="green">+1,666 (+6%)</font>      |
| Total Pageviews           | 66,578       | 69,090        | <font color="green">+2,512 (+4%)</font>      |
| Domain Authority (Moz)    | 13           | 14            | <font color="green">+1 (+8%)</font>          |
| Ranking Keywords (Moz)    | 1,574        | 1,654         | <font color="green">+80 (+5%)</font>         |
| AdSense Earnings          | $75.65       | $151.07       | <font color="green">+$75.42 (+100%)</font>   |
| Amazon Affiliate Earnings | $159.02      | $118.00       | <font color="red">-$41.02 (-26%)</font>      |
| Meal Plan Sales           | $23.87       | $0.00         | <font color="red">-$23.87 (-100%)</font>     |
| **Total Earnings**        | **$258.54**  | **$269.07**   | **<font color="green">+$10.53 (+4%)</font>** |

I'm still selling meal plans, but I've virtually ended all efforts to sell them (more on that below).

### [Zestful](https://zestfuldata.com)

| Metric         | October 2019 | November 2019 | Change                                       |
|-------------------------------|---------------|----------------------------------------------|
| Total Earnings | $3.89        | $65.33        | <font color="green">+$61.44 (+1,580%)</font> |

## Giving up on meal plans

## The disconnect problem in finding software business ideas

One of the big lightbulb moments I had in running my own business was reading the book *Start Small, Stay Small* by Rob Walling (my notes). He pointed out that the advantage all solo developers have is that they can build solutions for very niche audiences and still make money. He gives the example of a company that makes accounting software specifically for freelance web developers. Customers choose that vendor over bigger players like QuickBooks or Xero because 

The challenge, I'm learning, is connecting with those niches.

Suppose, for example, that you're the owner of a custom auto shop. You have to purchase car parts from many different suppliers all over the country, and each of them has a different payment system and ordering process. To do your accounting properly, you have to comb through your email and file each receipt properly in QuickBooks or whatever your accounting software is.

If you saw this as a developer, there are a few problems you could solve with software. Maybe you could write a service interprets receipts so that the auto shop owner can just forward you their receipts and you automatically import them properly into QuickBooks for them. Or, if you're ambitious, maybe you develop a marketplace for custom auto parts so that the owner doesn't have to hunt parts across different websites.

But there's the disconnect problem! If you're the owner of the custom auto shop, it probably doesn't even occur to you that someone could write software to solve these problems. You may be so accustomed to your process that you don't even recognize the problems in the first place.

I, as the developer, don't have a way of discovering that the business owner has this problem because I don't know their workflows and pain points. I could ask them, of course, but it's sort of a strange proposition.

>**Me**: I'd like to sell you a software product to automate the expensive or tedious parts of running your business.
>
>**Business owner**: Great! What does your software do?
>
>**Me**: I don't know.
>
>**Business owner**: ...?
>
>**Me**: I don't know what software you need, so in order to find out, you have to spend a few hours teaching a stranger about your business.
>
>**Business owner**: ...
>
>**Me**: Also, there's a good chance I'll decide there isn't a good opportunity for me, so I'll end up not making anything that solves any of your problems.
>
>**Business owner**: *[calls security]*

I'm exaggerating a little bit, but I do feel weird asking people to volunteer their time to walk me through their business when I know very little about it and chances are that I won't be able to reciprocate by building something for them.

**Note to self**: Maybe that auto shop example I made up is actually a good idea. Research custom auto shops.
{: .notice--info}

## Interviewing machine shops

In propsecting local businesses, I noticed that all of the companies I considered approaching all had websites by the same design firm, [Montague WebWorks](https://montaguewebworks.com/). I emailed the owner, Mik, asking if he had any advice for someone looking to create software for small, local businesses. He kindly invited me to his office.

During my discussion with Mik, he recommended that I check out [Valley Venture Mentors](https://montaguewebworks.com/), an organization that provides funding and mentorship for local startups. I attended one of their events and met someone who's in the process of leveraging more software in their machine shop.

We talked about the available options, and they seem pretty bad. Apparently, one of the most popular products for managing a machine shop is an application called JobBOSS, which looks like a product from 1994. From watching product demos online, the entire application seems to just be a thin UI over a SQL database.

## Recommendations

* Whole page screenshots in Firefox
* https://bruno-simon.com/

## Wrap up

### What got done?


### Lessons learned


### Goals for next month

