---
title: Hiring a Copy Editor Grew My Blog Audience 300x
layout: single
author_profile: true
read_time: true
comments: true
share: true
related: true
excerpt: Investing in lifelong writing skills paid dividends immediately.
---

I started this blog in May 2016. I don't mean to brag, but within my first year, I was pulling in upwards of *twenty* visitors per day, several of whom were not spam bots. That number could reach as high as *fifty* on days when I made a new post and begged for readers through all of my social media channels.

The size of my audience changed a bit in May 2017. The sharp-eyed reader may be able to identify a subtle change in my traffic graphs:

It may be clearer if we split it into two graphs, noting the difference in scale:


It actually looks like I didn't even have a blog until mid-May 2017. Let's move the date range. It's also worth noting that 4.6% of my visitors for the first year of my blog came from a single spam bot.

TODO: Add picture of "Vote for Trump language spam in GA"

I didn't really have a goal in mind. I felt like there were topics I would get interested in and spend a lot of time on, but there was no place to put the output. Sometimes it was a question I was trying to answer for myself.

## What changed?

Two things happened in May.

The first was that I started listening to the Indie Hackers podcast. If you're interested in starting your own software company or side project, check it out. Courtland Allen, the host of the podcast, strongly values writing and has discussed in a few interviews how writing publicly about his business helps him crystallize his ideas and improve his strategy.

In an interview with Nathan Barry, CEO of an email newsletter company, Barry said this:

TODO: add nathan barry quote

Just before I went to bed on May 13, 2017, I made [this post](https://www.upwork.com/jobs/~016a16f965a246c00f) to a freelancing site:

TODO: Screenshot of job posting.

When I woke up the next morning, I had proposals for the job from ten different freelancers. The lowest bidder, at $8/hr told me they were, "well-equipped with knowledge how to teach writing." The highest bidder

I felt it would be fitting for Samantha to edit this post~~, so if all the negative passages about her have been removed, that's why.~~

## Why an editor?

When you publish a blog post, you typically don't get back much feedback about why it was or was not successful. All the feedback mechanisms you have are very fuzzy. If you publish a post that flops, readers aren't going to email you and say, "Hey, your sentence structure was too repetitive, so it prevented me from connecting with the piece."

Writing is a very generalizable skill, useful far beyond writing blog content.

## Tell a story

One of the key insights I got from my editor was on my TaskRabbit post. In that post, I described hiring a chef from a task hiring service called TaskRabbit. It was the only post that wasn't about writing or installing software. This was 

>What are you trying to accomplish with this story? If it’s just the facts, you’ve done that, but I think you can do more. This is creative writing. Have fun with it. Make the reader laugh. Make the reader want to keep reading.

My first thought was, "This is just an explanation of how I hired a chef. What *story*?" I wrote the post because I had told a few friends about hiring a chef and people seemed interested in the details of it, "How much did it cost? How did you find a chef?" It seemed natural to me to write a blog post that mainly just answers those questions.

After I thought about it for a few days, I thought, "Why *can't* I tell it like a story?"

It immediately became the all-time most upvoted story on [/r/siacoin](https://www.reddit.com/r/Siacoin/top/) and [/r/cryptocurrency](https://www.reddit.com/r/CryptoCurrency/top/). I was later shamefully bumped from /r/CryptoCurrency by a picture of a sign). It also made it to the front page of Hacker News, a popular site for sharing technology news.

## Read it aloud

One of the most valuable tips Samantha gave me was to read my writing aloud. This tip alone would have been worth

Oh wow, that does not sound at all like something a human would say.

TODO: Put in Samantha's quote about your brain catching errors
TODO: Find article explaining the science

## Sound like a serious business writer

Oh. Your editor?

TODO: Picture of someone with eyebrow raised with "an editor you say?"

## Drastically expand your audience in six words

I live in Manhattan, where Seamless is popular enough that it's not uncommon to hear my friends say, "Want to come over and we'll get Seamless?" Samantha lives in Wisconsin, where Seamless is not popular, so when I just dropped "Seamless" into a post as if it was self-explanatory, she didn't know what I was talking about.

My blog is for people who are exactly me, but who haven't yet figured out how to do the thing I just figured out how to do.

## If your editor told you to jump off a bridge, would you do that too?

You don't have to do everything your copy editor tells you to do.

*[Editor's note: Ignore this section]*

There was one line in 

It should still sound like you.

## Closing thoughts

An editor alone isn't going to 

TODO: Is "copy editing" the right term?

TODO: Listen to Nathan Barry and patio11 interviews to find the spots where they mention writing

I don't recall seeing this in comments on other blog posts, though it should be noted that I don't recognize praise unless it's directed at me.

Writing is a skill that's useful for life in many different jobs. Like salesmanship or charm.

You can see that until May 15th, I had fewer than 100 visitors per week.

Find quote about deliberate practice and having expert feedback.